[Allie Nimmons] All righty, welcome back everyone.
Uh if you're just joining us welcome to WordPress
Accessibility Day my name is Allie Nimmons and
I'm your host for this session. We are about to
get started with Unmeasurable Accessibility, The
Case for Inclusive Design, with Darice de Cuba.
Please make sure to add your questions to
the YouTube chat feed and we will answer
those together at the end of the presentation.
Just a little bit about Darice before we begin.
Darice is a Web Developer and Blog Writer for the
Independent News Magazine and Website of Rotterdam
University of Applied Sciences, where she enjoys
uh writing a blog, brainstorming with the team
about the editorial, working on new designs,
optimizing pages and maintaining and improving
the WordPress website. Being late deaf which
gives her a unique insight into inclusive design,
she likes to write down her musics on her,
musings on her website. She loves to explore
the food scene in her hometown The Hague and in
the Netherlands. She is keeping track of cool
places she finds in her food guide. Today she's
going to be explaining Unmeasurable Accessibility,
The Case for Inclusive Design. So I'll
go ahead and pass things over to Darice.
[Darice] Okay, hi everyone um it's exciting
to be speaking to a worldwide audience today
and I ask you to bear with me, because I have
a several screen including my own transcriber.
So thanks to Allie for the introduction.
So you know my name is Darice
and I recap very short,
I'm a web developer so I have
experience with HTML, CSS, PHP, CSS
and of course WordPress. And the rest
you've already been told by Allie.
And today I talk to you about Inclusive Design
and user usability and my own experience.
So what most people understand on the
accessibility is stuff like ARIA for
screen readers, keyboard tabbable, colours with
a minimum contrast ratio of 4.5 to 1 and CSS at
media preference reduce motion reduce, that is to
reduce the motion for people who get sick from it.
And the most important thing about all these
things, are all testable, the tools are manual.
So you can have a totally accessible website
by those standards, but yeah your website
may be very unaccessible to many people.
There are several types of disability. You
have visible and non-visible disabilities
Non-visible disabilities: it's a
deaf or hard of hearing person,
a person with autism, a person with brain damage,
chronic illness and depression. And also under the
number chronic illness, there are several kind of
disabilities. You just pick a few, someone
with, say, MS that make their hands shake
which uh on the other hand makes it very difficult
to use a smartphone or keyboard. So you know
non-visible disability the person may look healthy
to you, but they may have bad, many disabilities.
In our lifetime most of us will have to deal
with either long-term or short-term illness,
broken bones, high stress for long periods
of times, all kinds of illness or injuries
that can make you temporarily disabled
or disabled for the rest of your life.
So most people aren't born disabled,
but become disabled later than life.
I became disabled later in life. When I
was 25 years old I had a brain hemorrhage.
And when I had that brain
hemorrhage it disabled my left
arm so I had to re-learn how to use my left arm.
And for the first time at the very young age of
25 years, I experienced how hard it is to use
a keyboard when you're just recovering from brain
hemorrhage. A year later when I was 26 years old,
I used to be hard of hearing, but
then I lost the rest of my hearing.
So one day I was still hard of hearing
and the next day I woke up completely deaf.
So I had to like drastically adjust my life in
one day. So I don't consider myself disabled,
rather I am made disabling by the obstacles
created by society. A society built only
for the seeing, hearing, talking, walking,
healthy straight, cis male, white people.
Every time I leave my home this
is what my life looks like outside
when I'm deaf. I'm constantly
avoiding things and adjusting.
So now a quick few facts about deafness and that
many people are not aware of. There are two kinds
of deafness. You have deaf with capital D which
means a person who is culturally identifies as a
deaf person. That those persons are born deaf or
became deaf as very early in their life as kids
and their primary language is sign language.
Then you have people with lower d deaf,
that's people like me amongst other
and we became deaf later in life. And
like I was hard of hearing since I was a kid, but
I had a hearing life and later on I became deaf.
And you have people who have been, have perfect
hearing in your whole lifetime, but maybe they
had an accident or they took some medication
and it is known that some heavy medication may
destroy your hearing and from one day to the next
people went from perfect hearing to deafness.
And of course this spoken
language is primary language.
So they will depend more on caption and
transcribe instead of sign language.
Inclusive design is a design approach that
takes as many individuals, their background,
their needs, experience and ability into account
from day one of the project. Accessibility is a
part of inclusive design. We want as many people
as possible to be able to use our products.
Smart examples that have big impact.
So this is a screenshot of delivery.com.
Um I'm from the Netherlands so
we have one of those ordering,
food ordering is deliverable. And I have never
used delivery. And I don't know how well you can
see the screen, but basically I'm just going to
have already taken my dinner and now I have to
pay. And on the screen there's nowhere, there is
an option, a text field, where I can fit in that
I'm deaf. And imagine something is wrong with
my order or the restaurant needs to contact me.
There's no way that I can let them know that
I'm deaf, so they can please send me an email
or a text message instead of calling. And sames
goes for the delivery person, there is no way
I can put that they should text me. Imagine
they ring the doorbell or something is wrong
they are going to call me, because
I can't let them know I'm deaf.
So this place lost my business and my
money, because it's not accessible to me.
And I like other foods, so every time something
goes wrong this is the feeling I have.
No food for me.
So one of the good things to use for
such website are chat widgets. And
little by little some place start using
chat widgets, but they are not using them
optimally to make them accessible to everyone.
A lot of them have a bot behind tools ah I as
a deaf person have no use for a bot. So if you're
going to implement a chat widget to communicate
with the client, you should think about the
real people behind it, reasonable waiting time
and the widget should work with all web browsers.
In the Netherlands we have like a social
government social service and they have a chat
which is specially for deaf people, because they
know we cannot call, but the first problem is
that you have to click like three or four times
on the website to finally arrive on that chat
widget. And the chat widget will work with Chrome
or maybe it will work with Firefox and every time
they develop or they make upgrades it's like a
surprise with which browser is going to work.
Just make sure it works in all modern browsers.
Another thing that makes your website very
unaccessible that you may not be aware of is, is
using a no-reply email. So you have your WordPress
website and you followed all advice to make
it accessible: screen readers, the colours are
working well, your links work well, but then when
you enter active clients you will send them mail
with a no-reply and there will be no contact info
and the only thing you'll be providing is a phone
number. And this has happened to me several times
and then I need to contact that company, I
have no way to do it. So if you're gonna use
a no-reply email make sure you do have options
in that email for people who cannot call
to contact you. Let it be an email
address that you are reachable at,
a chat widget or just a contact form. Another
thing is when people write web blogs, I mean a
lot of us start WordPress as a web blog and then
we expand it with woo-commerce and everything,
but people write so difficult. I as a developer,
many times I'm looking for things, how to do
things in PHP, how to do things in Python how to
do things in CSS and stumble across a web blog
and it's written so difficult. And it's not only
web blogs, the same government website also has to
contact many people of all social economic status
in the country. And I don't know if you know,
but if you make a mistake in your social things
and you may get a fine, but when you get a letter
from them or an email from them, it's written
so difficult. I'm a college university graduate
and even I have difficulties reading what
are they telling me because it's difficult.
Imagine a person with no education who works a
low-paid job and they get a letter like that.
So no one ever said when reading a web blog or a
website, I wish this was written more difficult.
So leave the difficult words out and try to
write like a writing for kids in sixth grade.
A photo says more than a thousand words. This
screenshot is of Spec Saver and it's a Dutch
website and after selling glasses
they also sell hearing aids.
And if you see the photos on this home page, they
assume that only elderly people use hearing aids.
And that is a huge, huge assumption that is
totally off base because like I mentioned,
I became hard of hearing, oh I think
I was born, nobody knows for sure,
but when I started school they
discovered I was hard of hearing.
So I think by the time I was 12 years it
was recommended that I had hearing aids.
So imagine nowadays you have a business and you
just make an assumption of who your client base is
and you design your website based on that. If I
was 12 years today in 2020 I would want to scrape
hearing aids with colours and you know, I've
seen some photos, they are very very much more
fun looking, than when back then. And imagine you
have parents who have money or willing to spend
money to have, to get the kids great hearing aids
and they arrive on a website that looks like this.
And some they click away, right away because this
website assumes there's only old people who were
hearing aids and the products will probably
not be to the liking of a 12 year old here.
So when you have a website and you focus
on commercial and clients, think very hard
who are actually your client base, because it
can cost you money in the long run. So captions,
Facebook made a very bad d/Deaf research. I mean
for them easy, because they can track everything.
And Facebook found out that increased view
time of videos on Facebook was for 12 percent
when they added subtitles. And they have a huge,
millions of people to test on because we can count
Facebook and Instagram on it. And captions have
so many advantages and it's not only for hard
of hearing and deaf people, but watching videos in
noisy places or the silent train coupe and imagine
you're at the library studying, and you take
a break and you want to see some video you're
going to need captions. It's also very handy for
the search engine optimization, because Google
cannot index sound, but Google does index text. So
if you have captions Google will find your website
and your features very much faster. And when
spoken language is not your primary language,
so if you are English speaking and maybe you
understand a bit of Spanish, but it will be handy
to have captioned maybe in English or as Spanish,
but as long as you can follow extra well. And also
if the speaker have an accent, I know I have an
accent, because I speak four languages and not one
mother tongue. So I know my sound very confusing
and I'm sure the caption will even help hearing
people follow me along. I don't know how many
of you are familiar with the SRT subtitle file,
but for me this SRT file is the biggest evidence
that way more people want caption than who don't,
because the SRT files has been popular since
the internet was fast enough to download media.
And there are websites, out there thousands and
thousands of captions and they are hugely popular.
So like everyone needs or want captions on their
videos, so it shouldn't be a question if you're
gonna put a video on your website, like should I
put a caption on a video, it's gonna cost money,
it's gonna cost time, but the answer is, yes.
Because everyone, everyone wants caption and
sometimes whether they know it or not they'll
prefer captions. So this is another huge fact,
if, if you're gonna caption, never ever do
this. Do not caption ball sounds like this.
I mean it's just offensive to deaf people,
especially and hard of hearing people.
But when Janice in Friends is laughing, that
you do caption. And why? Because in this context
one of Janice's most annoying characteristics was
her annoying laugh. And I can imagine, I'm hard
of hearing, so I saw the whole of Friends before
I became deaf, but now Friends is on Netflix and
a whole new generation is meeting Friends for
the first time. And I can imagine some some who
never heard Friends who would appreciate exactly
knowing why people are annoyed when Janice laughs.
So do think why, when you caption something,
if you are doing the correct way
and not in the offensive way.
So everyone likes, they pointing out
to me that YouTube has auto captioning.
Auto captioning is not good enough. The
first thing auto captions suffers from bias,
because it doesn't recognize accent and that is
also little non-inclusive. When you have a team
of the same people. I don't know, I'm going to
pick because most tech people are white and high
socioeconomic captioning they are going to be
thinking the same and now everybody is going to
think "oh, there might be people who speak with
accent." It fails with names. It depends on clear
articulation. If someone mumbles it won't get,
caption it right and it also depends how slow
someone speaks. And I practice, I sometimes
recommend people to do it is, is you know like
even for a day, I thought I would
like some to do it for a week,
but if you watch YouTube a lot, mute, mute the
sound and watch YouTube on mute for a week long,
and only, you're gonna have to do it like deaf
people do, depend on caption. Auto captions,
if there are captions, are they going to be good?
And so I dare people who are here, for a week or
maybe just try a day of watching YouTube on mute
and you'll find the horrors of auto captioning.
So for me the best and good examples are Netflix
and TED. And the Netflix is the best because
um English is not my first language, but my first
language is Papiamento. I don't know how many of
you know that, because I was born and raised on
Aruba, so unfortunately I won't find Papiamento
captions anywhere in the world, so my next go to
is English and not Dutch like many would think,
but English. So when I watch a movie on Netflix
I will always choose the English captions first.
But even so, Netflix has many, many options and
when I'm watching a movie from Spain, for example,
I would put, I won't block the language,
I will let them speak Spanish,
because I can lip read some,
but I will also choose the Spanish captions.
Because if I know those people are speaking
Spanish, I prefer to see Spanish captions and
on the other hand if I'm seeing English movie,
I know they're speaking English, I want to see
English caption. And again this is me, that is
late deaf person, so you should not assume that
early deaf person have the same preference .
And that's attitude, there is no one deaf person.
Every deaf person - late born, late deaf or early
deaf, they all have the individual preference
of how they like a caption or sign language.
And Netflix also also has a very good day and
lots of deaf people, lots of blind people and have
audio description. So imagine someone who is blind
is watching a horror movie, for example, and right
now the screen is silent, but everyone who can see
is looking a creep creeping outside the window.
And the audio, caption will let the blind person
know that there is a creeping person creeping
outside. So on that point I think Netflix was
doing very well up until now with captioning,
but there is also one thing you have to take
into account. Yes, when I'm watching a movie,
I don't know how many of you know One Day at
a Time? It's a movie about American Puerto Ri,
no a Cuban American family so they speak
English most of the time, but the grandma, a
lot of times speak Spanish. And that's one factor
I have with captioning and why the English as the
main language would be spoken and the moment they
have to speak Spanish they will not caption it at
all. There will be English, no Spanish caption, or
maybe they'll just put, person speaking Spanish.
And that is also inaccessible, so you have to pay
attention to small details like that. And that
that has captioning also blank and all
main languages and depends how old,
how long the video has been online. They also have
podcasts and just podcast has auto transcription.
So for me Netflix, and Ted are the
go to places to see videos and talks,
and all transcriptions not only for the deaf
and hard of hearing. And you know, I love to
acquire knowledge and follow thoughts and but
but, this at a new point of inaccessibility.
But This American Life understands, this. They
had all the trans and all the artists transcribed
years ago and they did it in a few months.
They transcribed all their podcasts and
since then every time an episode
is published, within 24 hours
it will have a transcription. And they have done,
you can, I have a link under this slide you can
look it up later and you have other statistics,
huge research and since they have been captioning
their listener has gone up, because Google
can index, caption uh transcriptions.
So they had an increase of visitor, they have an
increase of unique visitors. They can see that the
transcriptions are being read and they can see
they have more people visiting their podcast.
And why transcript matter, there's a huge list.
Because podcasts right now without transcriptions
they are inaccessible to deaf people, hard of
hearing people, people with hearing insensitivity,
people with ADHD, people in noisy environment,
people in silent environment as the train or the
library. And transcripts are also good for the
search engine, people's primary language isn't
English, and also for fast referencing or quoting.
So imagine you have a podcast and it was a hit
and you have it on your WordPress website your
WordPress website is super accessible. You have
a podcast that just went viral, but now you have
problem. You don't have transcript so Google won't
be indexing it and you're going to use lose out on
a huge group of people for which is inaccessible.
And that fast reference quoting and imagine
a journalist came to your website to write
about your podcast and the person has it, really
doesn't have time to go listen to all podcast.
And in this sense, transcripts are very
good, because people can scan them really
fast looking for the point and they can quote
from it and they can reference it in an article
or another website. So the advantages
of having transcripts are enormous.
So how inclusion works and why I'm going to
tell you this, because when you have a project
and maybe even a small project, it's always good
to have someone outside your bubble giving you
feedback and their point of view on your product.
It doesn't help you to have a bubble of the same
people who think like you, are the same culture of
you. So diversity is having a seat at the table.
Inclusion is having a voice, and
belonging is having that voice heard.
I'm a person who can be considered the diversity
in the Netherlands, because I am not Dutch.
I'm chronic ill and I'm deaf and many times that
happens that people ask me to join them and to be,
you know, the other voice. And that's very nice to
be sitting there and it's nice to be talking, but
sometimes you talk and people don't listen. And
so it's very important when you expand your bubble
to really be aware, I am really listening
to this person's voice. I'm not saying you
have to do everything someone tells you, but one
should really listen and you know comprehend what
they are being told about their website about the
product. And that's the best way to be inclusive.
And now I'm going to give you a perspective,
because uh since I've been doing this, I
got that question many many times: but it costs
money, it costs money, it costs money. And the
first thing you have to think about when you
have a budget and you're getting ready for stuff,
whatever project, so you look I'm gonna use
WordPress, that's free, thank you that's free.
The host is going to cost money and maybe I
have to hire a programmer, but in that budget
you should also think of about accessibility.
That should also be from day one, because
if you're gonna have to later, it
it's gonna cost even more money.
So day one you have your budget,
accessibility is going to be part of your budget.
And this is the perspective: abled people
will say disabled people are only what,
like five percent increase in our web audience?
Who cares about making the web accessible.
And also abled people: our sign-ups
increased of five percent. Bonuses for everyone!
So that's really something you should always
think about when you're going to start a project.
So thank you for listening and
do you have questions for me?
[Allie] Wonderful thank you so much,
that was amazing. I learned a ton. I was
tweeting through the whole thing. I really
appreciate everything that you just shared.
I do have the questions pulled up so I will make
sure that we go through them from first ones
to the most recent. Let me go back. Okay, so
the first question that we have: How many fonts
should I use when designing a website?
I found some websites using more than two fonts.
[Darice] Okay the font thing, um I think
just not only for disabled people, I think um
like I like gifs and I get annoyed if there are
too many gifs on the website I'm trying to read,
but one or twice okay. Uh okay I do actually
design longest web pages for my job and I stand by
three fonts. I will use one for the headers, and
one for the body, and one for the block quotes,
and maybe a fourth one, but just offer a small
text the captions, because if I caption a photo
I will always do that in a monotype space,
but no more than four. And you show us,
make sure they're like in some flow and to just
four. I know it's very hard, I mean there are
people who have font expert and I don't think I'm
a font expert, but like on Typekit from Adobe and
Google fonts,  you can always Google the fonts
combination and it's sure the combination work.
So you don't have to guess and mix
and match, but I will keep it four
fonts max and which of two are the main ones:
one for the header and one for the body.
[Allie] Next question: Do you see enough changes
in diversity in relation to digital accessibility?
How can we improve and what area needs it most?
What is the first thing you address when you
start a project? So that's three questions in one.
[Darice] Okay, I mostly advise
people. And then it's like,
I don't know how it is, I know I'm
speaking to a worldwide audience,
so I'm going to speak from
the Netherlands for faster
and the majority of the population here is white.
And after the industry at international products
to do web apps and stuff, I remember back then
there was a huge thing because it was a
group of young guys in Silicon Valley who
made the app for woman and they had it all wrong.
Why? Because they didn't have a woman in the team.
So you'd have to do it on day one and you're
gonna hire people and freelancers and try not,
I know after you're investing, you hear a lot
is, yeah buddy don't fit in the work culture.
See that's the problem, the work culture. You want
people that don't fit in your work culture because
your audience and your clients are not
going to be part of your work culture.
So look for people who are very different from
you. I'm not telling just pick someone because
they're a woman, because they are brown or
because they are disabled, you're gonna pick
some because they know the job, but you're not
gonna pick them because they are the same as you.
So that's the first thing you have to think.
[Allie] All righty, that was fantastic answer.
Could not agree more. The next one we have
up: YouTube auto captioning is not perfect,
but can those captions be used as a
reference to edit and fix the errors?
[Darice] Okay, ah, yes that's what I do at work.
Do we have videos online you're captioning them
and yes the advice is you upload on YouTube and
YouTube will generate the auto captioning and
it's going to be full of mistakes. And what you
can do is you can edit that file. So it does help
that you don't have to start from scratch. So you
just get that auto generator from YouTube that's
going to be full of errors and still will take
some work for at least you're not starting from
scratch. It will have all the minutes already
noted and so you just have to go through that
text and correct all the mistakes and then
you have fun, well working captions. So yes,
that's advice, but never just generate it
and leave it like that. You can correct them.
[Allie] Absolutely, that's fantastic.
All right, next question.
Um captioning is possible in YouTube Vimeo etc,
but how can I use it in HTML type videos?
So I guess that means videos that
they've just embedded directly into the
site and not from a third party?
[Darice] Well that's a good question.
You have to see the experts on that. I'm sure
today there will be someone speaking about that.
Because I'm deaf myself, I'm not able to test
these things and create the captions. But if
I'm not correct [unintelligible] my video I
just embed files, so you have to like burn
the, uh, caption hard coded in the video. Because
right now YouTube gives you the options turning it
on or off and the menu too, but if you're gonna
embed it [unintelligible] then you make sure to
make sure that you burn those captions in the
video. So that's what I thinking about, yes.
[Allie] Awesome, uh so this is actually the last
question that I'm seeing so, but we do have some
time so if anyone has additional questions please
put them in the chat so that I can grab them,
uh, and pose them to the speaker here. So
the last question I'm seeing right now is:
Is it good to use "here" when providing
links and if not what is the right method?
[Darice] No it's not right to use "here".
I, so I always like explain what the link
is and that explanation part going to link,
but here as well, yes. No, so if I'm going to
link to this talk later on on my website I'm
going to write, yesterday I gave a talk to the
WordPress Accessibility. You can view my talk
on YouTube and I will link "you can view
my talk on YouTube". I'm not gonna say you
can view it here, a link here, no. [Allie] All
right, so we have one more that just came in.
The question is: What are your thoughts on
YouTube community captions being discontinued?
[Darice] Okay, I think YouTube
community is very big. I don't
think there is one YouTube
YouTube community, because
inside YouTube you have several
sections. And I think uh
yes, uh let's say for example since this
pandemic that we have been sitting at home,
I've taken a liking to see these interviews
writer who released the books. So they are
not going on book tours anymore, so
everyone is talking to the bookstores
on YouTube and several of them are captioned. I'm
not 100 percent sure if it's auto caption or not.
I'm going to assume they were corrected,
because they're pretty good captions,
but there's time I'm missing. I also
like seeing night talk shows from the
United States. You know like [unintelligible],
I can keep them apart, but I noticed that Conan
never ever has captions.
So I never ever, have yes,
Conan and lately I just stumbled upon
him in the recommendation and I saw he
had captions. But before that Conan
did not have subtitles on YouTube.
And I think it's Kimmel, Kimmel has subtitles,
but his subtitles are always delayed.
And so it's it's very hit and miss in in in the
YouTube sphere, but what I am very upset about is
the decision of Google to stop community captions.
I don't know if you people have followed,
but Google is gonna stop, uh, the possibility for
people, like you have a channel and you have a
video and someone can write the captions for you
and submit them. But they are going to stop that.
So Google is actively working against
accessibility on that point. And it was also your
thing with Twitter because Twitter started voice
tweets. And I want to ask this world, well others,
to think twice before you start using voice tweet,
because they announced it voice tweet. And then
everybody was like, okay what about other deaf
and hard of hearing people? And it turns Twitter
hadn't even talked about with their accessibility
team. It turned out they didn't really had
an accessibility team. So when people got mad
they had to scramble and get that team set up,
because you cannot think Twitter is highly
accessible right now. Write the text and you're
always giving tips how to keep the text accessible
for screen readers and I want to advise this,
that won't be accessible to deaf. So now the
voice threads are going to launch soon just here
and the captions will follow later. So I'm
asking right now the worldwide artist please
do not use voice tweets. Please just keep
writing your tweets and so many letters.
[Allie] There you go. All right folks,
that's all the questions that I'm seeing
for now. So we are going to go ahead and ,
um, wrap up. Thank you Darice so much for all
that fantastic information. You made so many
amazing points and it was such a pleasure
and an honor to hear you talk today